In this video, we're going to look at
techniques for filtering data in our
pivots so we can focus on just
the information that we need.
We're in the investment tab and
Rowan would like to see the total
investment in 2001 for Argentina.
So let's make a couple of
changes to our pivot table.
I'm going to put years into
the column section and
then I'm going to add recipient country.
We're getting a really large data set
here, so we need a way of zooming in and
just seeing the information we need.
Both the row labels,
an column label header fields allow
us to both sort and filter the data.
So for example,
if I come to the column labels and
click the drop down,
each individual year is represented here.
And I can just untick all and
choose 2001 and say OK.
And then I could do something
very similar for the row labels.
So I'm going to click the drop down,
and I'm going to untick all.
And I'm going to choose Argentina,
and there's my answer.
But Rowan now wants to have
a look at Argentina and Brazil.
So we're going to come
back to the row labels.
We could just start scrolling through,
but we have a lot of data.
It might be quicker to search, so
clicking in the search box
I'm going to type B-R-A-Z.
And there's only one country
that meets that description.
But if I just click OK,
it's going to replace my Argentina filter.
And I want to add this to
the current selection, so
I'm going to tick that option and
say OK, and now I've got both.
To clear our filter,
we have a few options.
You can come back to
the original row label and
just clear that particular filter.
But when you have a lot of filters,
manually clearing each
one could be quite slow.
So a nice option and
some quicker options if you like.
If you come to your PivotTable Analyze and
select the clear,
there's an option to clear filters.
The problem with this is
it's always two clicks.
I prefer the data tab which gives
you the same clear filter and
that will clear all
the filters from that pivot.
So I'm going to click on that and
we're back.
Let's look at a couple of small,
slightly sophisticated filters.
So in the next example,
Rowan wants to see investment in all
countries beginning with a b for
2015 and onwards.
Coming to our row labels first,
we could start unchecking everything
that doesn't begin with a b, but
again, not really efficient.
If you come to your label filters,
however, you get all sorts of options for
filtering text.
And we want begins with, so
I'm going to choose that, type a b.
It's not case sensitive and say OK.
And we get a similar selection for
working with dates.
I'm going to come to column labels and
I'm going to come to date filters and
wow, what a great selection.
We actually want all dates after a certain
date, so I'm going to choose the after.
An I'd be tempted to just type 2014, but
remember these aren't actually years.
They're actually real dates, so
I have to put in a full date.
So I'm going to just put
31st of the 12th 2014.
Now, one little caution.
If my dates contain times
midday on the 31st of the 12,
2014 is considered to be
after the 31st of the 12th,
so that wouldn't actually be filtered out.
What you can do to avoid the problem
is select whole days and
that will ignore the times.
I can now say OK.
And the filter has been applied.
Let's clear those filters again.
So on my data tab I'm
clicking clear filter.
And we're now going to remove
the year from the columns, so
I'm going to grab that and drop it off.
Now the last question
Rowan wants to ask is,
what were the top five
recipient countries for 2010?
Now, this time I don't actually
want to filter my row label.
I want to filter by amount.
So I'm going to come to my
row labels field header.
But instead of label filters,
I'm going to choose value filters.
And you'll see right at the bottom we
even have the option to do a Top 10.
It doesn't have to be a 10.
It doesn't even have to be items,
that could be percents.
Now we want the top five and
I'm going to click OK.
And they are my top five
recipient countries, but
this is across all the years, so
there's one more step we need to narrow
this down to show us just the 2010 data.
But we no longer have the year
information in our pivot.
What you can do if you want to filter
by a field that you don't necessarily
want to show in the pivot is you
can use the filters area, and
that's exactly what we're going to do.
So we're going to find years and
drag it and drop it into the filters area.
So this has added a filter
above our pivot table, and
you can add as many as you like.
Now it's still showing me the data for
all the years, but
if I click the drop down and
select 2010 and say OK,
it is now just showing me
the top five recipients in 2010.
So these filter fields
are immensely useful, but
they have one other amazing feature.
And to demonstrate this,
I'm going to ask you to come to
the RE versus non-RE pivots and
just click inside it.
Which we actually want to do here is,
Rowan's been asked to
produce three separate reports,
one showing this information for
the year 2000, one for
2010 and one for 2017.
Now what he doesn't want to
have to do is filter the data,
copy paste field, copy paste, and
keep repeating that process, and
we often find ourselves in that position.
So what we're going to do is actually
use the filter field to produce
the reports for us.
Let's start by adding
year to our filter field.
And then we're going to
come up to our filter.
Click the drop down.
This time I want multiple items, so
I'm going to check select multiple items.
Untick all and we're going to choose 2000,
2010, and 2017 and then say OK.
What this is actually showing
us is the cumulative totals for
those three years,
which is not what we want.
But that's step number one.
Now step number two, we're going
to come to pivot table analyze.
We're going to find
the options button on the left,
we're going to click
the drop down next to it.
And we're going to choose
show report filter pages.
Is checking that's
the filter we want to use.
Which is correct?
So we're going to say OK.
And we're now looking at the report for
2000.
If we have a look at our worksheet tabs,
you see we also have a report for
2010 and for 2017.
So what we did there was used
to filter in our original report
to generate multiple other
reports amazingly quick.
So, to recap, we've looked at how
we can use both row labels and
column labels to filter our data and
how we can use our filter fields to
add filters for
values that are not in the pivot and
to generate pivot reports using
the show report filter pages.
There is one more amazing filter option,
called a slicer,
which we're going to show you next week
when we start doing our dashboard.